Let's go over all the steps Ihave taken.



1. Load the data (car.csv from the result folder)

2. Check the distribution of the labeled classes - to check if it's balanced or not

3. Check the unique value for each categorical feature

4. Remove duplicate rows

5. Replace "5more" in doors with "6", and "more" in seats with "6"

6. handle imputation function - inside which I have following steps

     6.1 Define null flavors

     6.2 for each column - do this

      - replace null_flavors with np.nan

      -f is.na found in this column,

       - if col - is float, replace with mean, if it's int replace with median, otherwise replace with mod

      - return the imputed dataframe from the function

7. Transform datatypes from object to python-native styles 

8. Save the cleaned dataframe as a "parquet" file in the results/ folder

--- that's all in eda.ipynb ---



--- The following is in classification.ipynb ---

9. time-wrapper function

10. load the cleaned data from parquet

11. Feature engineering -

 where I apply original_mapping to price, maintenance, storage, safety, shouldBy, and (doors, seats) are int at this point - check after this process if any null/na

12. feature importance - 

- Here, I use mutual information gain instead of a correlation matrix. MI captures statistical dependency between the feature and the label. Then print the result





13. Normaization - min-max scaling



14. Stratified partitioning in 2 stages.

 stage 1 - 10% keep for testing - in value, don't use it at all

state 2 - stratified k fold shuffling with 9 splits, and 10 repeats over remaining 90% of the data.



15. multi-algo execution loop

15.1. Prepare cross-validation engine -evaluate function - which evaluates all models' results
   measure - accuracy, precision, recall, f1 score using make_scorer, both mean; std-dev; handle zero-division
15.2. Function for tune kNN neighbors to find the best k
15.3. Master execution
 -- Model_suite = naive bayes, knn, svm - linear - radial kernel, RF, XGBoost, ANN
 -- raw results stored by a call to - eveulate function 15.1
 -- prepare a summary =>
    store df: model -> accuracy, precision, recall, f1 (both mean-std), time taken, _sort_key (for dataframe)

16. save model as pkl (using joblib library)


17. Data-viz 
17.1 Box-plot Model vs F1 score - stability analisis => wide box-plot => inconsistent model across random shuffles
17.2 Efficiency Trade off for each model => Time taken vs F1 => 

18. Final Testing & Generalization
- time to test on those 10% data that we put in vault
- apply fit/predict to all models to get predictions on test data
- calculate f1_score, accuracy, preicision, recall, (y_pred - for confusion matrix)

19. Compare resultts of cross-validation training vs testing
- plot the results of comparison against diff score

20. Plot confusion matrix, and ROC for each model, and save the results.